High in this video we're going to start looking at how to do package impuls And when we nest packages
under packages and modules on the packages how we can roll things up into kind of a nicer namespace
infrastructure for the users of our package even if it's ourselves if we're using that say a bunch of
packages that we're writing in our application.
We'd like an easy way to get two things.
So let's start by creating a package and I'm going to create a package using the Python package in Python
which remember just creates the directory and the Dundreary net and call this common.
Because this is where my common stuff is going to go.
So as you can see above the directory and I've got the in it.
Next I'm going to create a validators package under here.
So let's go ahead and call it validators and not get this validated package.
And this is just going to be you know sample code.
But it's going to be things like for testing if something is an integer or maybe converting something
to an integer.
So it is going to be voters there's going to be you know testers to see if things are so in a certain
format maybe I want to validate e-mails validate you Oreilles things like that.
So I'm going to keep it simple let's say that we have a module now so I'm just going to create a python
file and I'm going to call it Bhuiyan.
I'm not going to call it boolean validators It's already under validators.
So I keep the names as short as possible and in context I know what it means it's validators dot boolean.
So let's go ahead and write with file.
I will just write the file name up here and maybe will do is boolean.
That takes an argument and it's going to pass.
So this is not about writing code.
I'm not going to be writing code.
But what I want to do is show you is that I might actually have other functions in here that go beyond
the.
Is Boolean that I'm going to be using in the end.
And so maybe I've got some boolean you know help a function that I need to use and it's just going to
pass as well.
And maybe I've got another one.
OK so maybe I've got a couple of functions that I really want to use for the implementation of is boolean
and maybe there's a few other functions too.
But let's say I've got this.
OK let's go ahead and do the same thing.
Let's say we have something for dates.
So let's go ahead and create a date model.
And here's where I'm going to have death is date take some argument and it's just going to pass.
OK.
And then maybe I've got some help of functions that I need in here as well.
I'll do that.
OK.
So we've got that and maybe I'll get better data is full.
Jason So let's go ahead and write a song.
All Sunday.
P Y and then maybe it's is.
Jason takes an argument passes and as usual we'll maybe have some help of function helper won and maybe
we'll have another one as well.
Okay.
And lastly let's do one more let's do it is numeric.
So let's write a python file system Madill not is numeric just numeric K and a numeric.
Let's say that we have a few things like maybe def is integer
then maybe we'll def is numeric gays who want to be able to distinguish if something is numerical or
integer actually petrify this on.
Well as we want maybe I've got some helper functions now.
OK so here I've got like two functions that I'm interested in.
And here we have the help of functions that are going to be used inside this module.
But that's not really for use outside of the module.
OK.
So now we have this package called validators inside the package called common K and validate as has
in it.
This is the code for the validator module and this in.
Here is the code for the common module.
So let me go ahead and just say that this is the validators I'm going to call that validators.
And this one is the common.
OK.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and write a main file.
So we'll do this and I'll just call it main duppy why I'm not going to Dunder it.
I'm not going to be running this directly from outside the application directory as we saw that done
the main can do.
So in this one if I want to use those validators How am I going to have to do that.
Well I'm going to have to implement them.
So let's go ahead and import all these different melodies.
So I'm going to say import.
So I need to give the full path import common modeled models.
Will not get to malls yet validators.
OK.
And then I need to import boolean.
Ok then I need to import common dark validators duct taped.
And then I need to import common validators dot Jaisalmer and then I need to import common Darton validators
dot numeric.
OK.
And if I had more things inside this common package I would have to import each one of those Fano we
can actually use them now we can say commande are validated is datt let's say we want to do if it's
a Jason Teso Jason dot and you'll notice here what's happening.
First thing is that Jason helper shows up and so does Jason help but to for one and to show up and then
Jason is really the only thing I'm interested in.
So that's what I'm going to use I'm going to pass it you know just maybe an empty string an empty Yup.
Jason dictionary.
So this is how you would go about doing it if you wanted to you know test for something to be a valid
date.
You'd say validated is d'arte date dot and again you'll notice that we have these two helper functions
that show up.
They are available.
All right but I only really want is data and maybe I'll pass at a date like 20:18 0 1 0 1 or something
like that.
OK.
So this will run just fine.
We can go ahead and run it.
And you'll notice it ran just fine.
But it's not that easy to write all this stuff.
OK.
You have to write a lot of import import or quite a bit nested and so on.
Now let's just take a look at what we have in the name spaces though.
Let's take a look as well I mean we kind of see that because when we did the import when we said you
know common dot revalidate TAWS dot you can see that Sunday Boullier numeric while they were available
because.
Well first of all I imported them but that we can continue.
And we saw like if I take for example Gnumeric then you can see that I have all these four functions
that were defined in that module is integer is numeric which are the ones of interest to me as a user
of the validators but numeric help of one numeric help.
I'm not really interested in and yet they show up.
Well that's because they're in the namespace which namespace.
Let's just go figure that out very quick.
Let's do this let's right let's just look at ourself.
So this module here.
And let's see what we have in our Global's.
Now I could try and do this.
I want to show you this actually.
This is kind of interesting and you'll see that this is going to generate an error.
I just want to print all the keys in my Global's OK but I want to print them on you know one line each.
Well the problem if I do this you'll see.
Let's run it.
And I get this runtime error.
The dictionary changed size during iteration.
Well what's happening is that I'm iterating through the Global's dictionary right.
I'm iterating using the keys but you'll notice what happens is that I have four case.
So K is a a symbol in my global namespace.
As soon as I do this for K in the first thing it does it sets up the iterator for Global's then it goes
ahead and loops through it and assigns each key as it comes out of the iterator into this symbol this
variable k.
But where does live in the global namespace.
In other words I've modified this iterable this Global's dictionary I should say.
While I'm iterating through it we can't do that.
So instead what I'm going to do is I'm going to make a copy of it by creating a new dictionary.
So we'll do it this way.
And actually all that extra space and then came in Dick Global again or let it pick the way you go to
get my parentheses straight.
All right so now let's go ahead and run this.
And now you'll see that runs just fine.
So what's in our global namespace in our main you know main Doppie why maned a PI namespace.
Well we've got the usual the name the doc the loader the spec and so on but we also have this one here.
Why do we have common.
Because we imported common from over here right in here.
So we imported commande up validators the boolean Romanova what Python had to do it had to first import
common then it had to import validators commande of validators and then imported come into validators
the Boulia and one gets put into our namespace is common right.
Not validate is a Boolean that's going to be available through the dot.
You know the dotted path notation but common is what goes into a namespace.
OK.
So next let's take a look at what's in our common namespace right in common here.
So
let's go ahead and loop now here.
I'm going to look for k in common dots.
The way to get the name space is just to look at the dict at the Dondre dict property and we'll just
look at the keys again.
And by default it will be the keys.
But I like to be explicit.
Now here I don't have to make a copy of the dictionary because this case over here is living in my global
namespace not in the Commons namespace so it's not we're not going to have that problem.
Only to underscore on the end.
So let's go ahead and run this NOW.
And so here's what we have so in common You'll notice that we have the validators package.
So now let's go ahead and dig into that one and see what's in there.
So I'm going to copy paste this fairly day to Oza and here I'm going to look at common duffed validators
dot dot dot.
OK.
So we're going to do the same thing here but just for the validators.
So now let's see what we have inside the validators package.
We've got the usual down the properties but we also have a boolean date Jason and numeric which were
what they were.
These models that we created.
So it has all these in that name space.
So let's go ahead now.
And finally just run it for one.
Let's say we'll take the validators or we'll take the numeric K and we'll do validate as Dot numeric
dot dot dot dot.
And now let's run this and see what we get.
And so you can see that in numeric namespace we have is integer is numeric numeric help of 1 numeric
help too.
All right.
So that kind of helps establish where everything is located.
And so things are nested within each other because that's what packages are for.
So now let's go back to the original problem which is you know this certainly works.
We can do this but it's kind of tedious it's also tedious having to write it out every time come that
it is based on is based on.
If you wanted to you could change this.
And for example for numeric instead of doing this I might say something like.
From common dot validators dot numeric dots import up data input.
And what do I want to import.
I want to import that is integer.
And I want to import is numeric and that's all I want to do.
OK.
So I could do it this way.
Again this is kind of tedious.
So now I want to use Integer always numeric.
I could just say is you know is numeric let's say 10 things something like that or is you know integer
100 for the you or whatever the function does.
So this is fine but this is even more tedious.
Right.
I have to now do this from this import.
This what would be nice if I could just maybe say simple common dot validators and you know maybe I
even do this as validators.
And then I want to be able to just access directly all these validators directly in the validator.
OK I might want to do something like this.
Now obviously this isn't going to work that's try it but that's not going to work.
It's going to complain and tell me that common validated has no attribute is numeric.
This worked just fine.
That's fine.
I can import the validators right but I'm still going to have to load up the things inside boolean and
data.
So here I would have to say validators dot all we're looking at numeric so numeric dot is numeric.
And here validators is numeric Da'ath is integer.
Now that will work just fine.
OK that's going to reach into the numeric namespace and grab the numeric function that symbol but it's
full you know tedious.
So there's got to be a better way.
So let's go ahead and removalists Let's go back to what we had before which was this basically.
OK and let's go ahead and fix this up using the package.
We have a package.
So what we might want to do is the following.
So inside the validators module we're going to import.
So we're going to say in-call.
Now what do we want to improve.
We want to import common Dogget validators dot Pulliam OK and then we want to import common darf validators
dot data and then we want to import common doffed validators dot J song and then we want to import common
people common Dopp validators numeric.
OK for now we have these imports being done by the validators module right.
This is the model package but it's a module.
It's running these impuls.
This is the package code that's done do it.
For now if we go back to main instead of doing all this what we can now do is to say import common validators.
And if we want we can even say as validators.
OK but I'm not going to do that.
I'm just going to impled common validators and we'll spell it right.
OK so now I can do the following.
I can go ahead and say common validators dot and I can access let's say boolean dot and then I can access
is boolean.
OK and maybe I'll give it a value.
True for example.
So this now is going to work.
You'll notice I didn't have to import common.
Validate is not Boolean because the validator package did it for me.
It imported boolean.
So now if I run this everything works just fine.
So that's great but I'm still putting this boolean in front of as boolean.
And maybe that's how I want this package to be.
In this case I don't.
These are all simple functions you know is Boolean is integer is numeric date is Jason.
I just wanted them all bundled up under the validators namespace.
I don't want to have to reach into the sub name spaces to grab what I want.
The user of validators doesn't need to know that is boolean.
Lives is and is boolean.
They don't need to know.
We'll have to worry about the fact that you know if they won't It is Jason function.
They first have to reach in to the J song module onto the adjacent namespace and then called is Jaisalmer
right.
So that works but I don't want.
In this case I don't want my users to have to do that.
So instead what I want to do and this is I actually want to import the symbols that are in boolean and
in date and in on and in numeric.
So this actually is a great reason for using import star right.
Typically not something we want to do but in this case this is a great use case for the import stuff.
So what I'm going to say is from common that validators dupped.
Let's start with Boolean simple stuff.
OK let's say that I have this and I'll keep those three.
I'm still there as well and I'll just have to fix with it right there.
OK so now let's go back to Main and this will work just fine.
OK.
This is going to work just fine.
But what happens now is that for the booleans I don't actually have to reach in to the Boullion because
what happens if I rerun this and let's take a look at the namespace that we have for self.
So self we have Carmen K common and under common we have validators.
Let's see what's inside validators.
Well you'll notice that we have a date we have Jason we have Gnumeric we have Boullion.
So we have all these but we also have is Boullion which is the one that we're interested in this is
why this runs this works just fine.
Now we also have however these two over here.
Boullion helper one Boullion help with two.
I actually really don't want those in there only want is boolean.
Because now if I go back here.
In this one and I change all this now I'm going to remove all of these.
And I need to stop using my Mac shortcut keys and use Windows sort of keys instead.
OK.
So I'm going to do the same thing for all of those.
I'm going to say from common data validators dots dates important stuff.
I'm going to say from common dot validators dark Jaison imposter and from Carmen got validators dot
Gnumeric important stuff.
Cape's.
Now I've got this kind of import structure so if I run my program again and by the way now I can say
common Doggett's validators dot is numeric for example and I can call commande up the validators dot
is data.
I have access to all of these.
OK.
Is data and so on.
Of course I can still use if I want common dot validators dot boolean right dot is Boolean that that
will still work just fine.
OK.
Now if I run this everything runs just fine.
And let's see what's inside of validators namespace while we've got boolean OK that's the model we've
got date.
That's the model Jason that's the module Gnumeric that's the model we've got is Boullion.
That's great you've got is date is Jaison is integer is numeric.
But then we have all these helper functions as well.
So I don't like that.
OK.
So we want to fix this up.
That's one thing.
The other thing too is that I'm looking at all this and I decide you know what I want to change this
package name I wanted to make this something else I don't want to call it common.
I want it to be called shared.
So I'm going to going to go in here and I'm going to refactor this and I'm going to call this shared.
Now I'm not going to do a safe refactor I'm just going to change the name Azeez right here.
OK.
So now I've changed it to changed and now the problem is that in side the main Well it's not called
commande of validators anymore it's going to be called Shared validators.
OK so I'm going to impled should the validators and I'm going to change this.
All these things to.
And that's what I have to do.
Same thing in here.
This has to be called shared.
This should be shared and this should be shared.
OK so I've changed the top level namespace.
All right.
The top level name I should say of that common package.
It's not the shared package.
So if I go ahead and run this you'll notice that we get errors and it comes from where.
Well it actually comes from the Dunder init of validators.
OK which is this file over here.
Why.
Well I would have to go in here now and change this to shed validators and shared the validators in
shirt.
That's a you know a pain if I rename my parents package I'm going to have to wherever I reference that
package name.
I'm going have to change it.
So instead a better way to do this here is to call is to use what's called a relative import.
So in my validators package my validate package lives where it lives inside the package above it.
Now where do I want to import Billiam from.
I want to import Boullion from where I am with this and it is right.
These files are basically siblings to the Donder init.
So I want to import it from the same current location where I'm running right now.
So right now this code is running inside the Dunder init this file over here and I just want to run
an import.
I should say Boullion and Dave and Jason.
So instead of specifying this entire path I'm going to make what's called a relative import.
I'm going to say look at the current directory and find the boolean module in there.
And I'm going to do the same thing over here.
Now I'm going to do this and I'm going to change this one and this one.
So now I have a relative import and you can use more dots if you had let's say a package that was sitting
you know parallel to validators as a sibling to validators you could use a double dot to go outside
to go up one level to now you'd be inside the shared package and you could then reference the module
or the package that's in the shed package.
If you were three levels deep you could put three dots and walk your way up three levels and so on.
So just count the number of dots that's the number of paths you're going to go up in the hierarchy.
I only need to be in my current path.
Now let's go ahead and run this again.
And everything ran just fine.
So all I had to do was really change the main impulse here shed validated if I had done this.
K then I would have had to change the validators over here.
Right.
I wouldn't have had to do this.
I would have to change sched.
But here I wouldn't have had to do it.
They would have just of used validators cake.
Now in this case over here I can still just do this right and do this.
So now I'm kind of independent of the name of the shared module.
So far run everything runs just fine.
Shared is not defined.
Where are we.
Where in Maine AP wire line 17.
Oh yes that's not shared because this is the shared package.
So I've imported shared the validators as validators but I don't actually have shared itself in order
to list out what's in shirred.
So let's do that.
And now that works just fine.
OK so now let me rename this back to common.
OK so I'm going to rename this back to comments on we're going to refactor it.
I prefer calling it common than Zenn but it doesn't matter.
So now of course here I have to do this I have to change these two references because those were the
ones that were affected.
And then after that everything should run just fine.
So let's test that.
And as you can see everything ran just fine.
I didn't have to worry about these impled.
OK so that's one problem that we fix by using relative importance that we don't really worry about the
name of the package that we're in.
Right.
If even you validate as if that name changes doesn't matter.
I can refactor this now.
And let's say I rename this to validators too.
OK.
And let me refactor that.
Now things are going to break but what's going to break.
Well this important here is going to break because it's not called validators anymore it's called validators
to.
Right.
And now if we run it everything ran just fine.
You'll notice that this didn't break because we just used a relative import.
So I'm going to change this back to validate this and in the main we'll change back as well.
So now the next thing that I want to look at is this whole thing where we saw when we're in Maine that
if we wrote validators note now we had all is Boolean is numeric but we also had that boolean helper
Jason helper and so on.
Right.
We had all the stuff that I really didn't want and the way that I can avoid that is because I'm using
the import stuff.
So when I do import stuff it imports everything in the module every symbol that's in the module.
So let's take a look at for example boolean So it's importing is Boolean Boullion help a 1000000000
help.
It's taking those symbols and adding them to wherever they're getting imported.
So here all those symbols came from the Boullion module are now in this validators namespace right there
in the validators dictionary the addict.
One way that you can avoid that is by prefixing your methods with underscores and so underscores is
really only applicable to the import stuff and everything actually I'm going to talk about now with
these imports is applicable to the imports stuff.
How does imports decide what symbols to import.
We can actually control that so we can control what gets exported from our module.
So here by putting the key all this underscores just a basically a python convention that it follows
if it sees an underscore in front of a function it is not going to put it into the namespace with the
importer is being called from.
So let's go ahead and try that.
Let's run this.
And let's take a look now at the namespace for validators.
You'll notice that we still have boolean and is boolean but all those two those boolean helper functions
are no longer there.
They're gone.
So that's one way of controlling what gets exported.
When we do an import stuff there is another way.
And that's by using a special property called Gunda all.
So in this property we basically specify a list of the symbols that we want to export from our package.
So here I want to export is date and nothing else.
OK.
So if we look at the Right now what got exported.
Right.
When we looked at our validators package our validators namespace we saw that we had Boullion is Boullion
those to help functions were gone.
And then for date we only have date and date but we also have date help of one date help with 2.
So now let's go ahead and run this.
Now that we've done this done to roll and see what happens so let's take a look at the validators again.
For now we have dates and is dates but those two helper functions for date are gone.
Right.
These two dates helpers one and two are gone.
They're no longer showing up in that name space so we can do the same thing with Jason.
We can just go here and find a Under all.
And here what do we want to export.
We just want to export is Jaisalmer.
So that's what we have to do.
What about gnumeric.
Well Gnumeric all equals what we want to export here we have to of them.
We want to export is integer.
A comma is numeric
OK.
So now we've done that export.
Let's go ahead and run this and the numeric store has that right.
These these functions here are still part of the numeric namespace.
What I'm interested in is in the containing namespace to validate as namespace is that in them.
And their answer is no they gone right.
Boolean is Boolean is there is date is Jaison is integer is numeric but all the help of functions are
no longer in that namespace.
So I was able to clean that up.
So now if we go back to the main module nothing is change everything still works as is the difference
now is that I you know I can access all these functions directly.
I don't need to put de-funded is Jason because his Jaison is in my validators namespace so his date.
Right.
So is boolean.
So the one we have there right.
All these things all day.
So if we run this everything runs just fine.
Now you'll notice that in the validators namespace we also have the module Boullion boolean right.
And we have the module date and J-Zone and numeric and so I may not want those to be in there I just
want to keep it clean.
I just want to have these is you know validated methods.
Well again we can control is through the validators model code.
So in here what did we do what we've done all these impuls.
So now all these things over here are sitting in our namespace.
OK.
And so if somebody does let's say and imports from we all from the common validate is impled stuff.
So what if they do something like this from common Dalt validators does import stuff.
So this isn't something that's recommended rights this is going to basically take all these symbols
that are in the validators namespace and add them to our namespace.
So you'll notice what namespace looks like right now on namespace is pretty clean.
It's got validators in common.
Right.
And then the other standard stuff.
Now if we run this.
However look at what happens to a namespace we have validators in common just like before.
But now we have boolean and boolean and date and date and Jaison it is based on a numeric and so on
at least we don't have all the help or methods but we still have you know all these things.
And this is kind of redundant having numeric and is integer and numeric we really would only like is
integer is numeric.
Now we probably shouldn't be doing any stuff anyways.
But if you want to be kind of nice and allow somebody to still do an import and not pollute this stuff
with let's say the module names that are you know that these other methods actually coming from these
functions are coming from we can control it.
We could say dhanda.
All right equals and now you would have to list out every single thing that we want we want is Boolean
is date is J-Zone so we could say you know what is Boolean for example and then we'd have to list is
Jason and so on.
So let's try this just as it is right now.
And let's see what we get in our namespace.
So if we go back to our self namespace you'll notice that we now we only have this boolean is Jason.
And that came from the imports stuff.
OK.
That came from this one over here.
We only got is Boullion is Jasen because we all hear the under all method only properties sorry he set
to only export these two symbols.
Now this is going to get tedious.
If there's a lot of packages or modules to import from and somehow I've got to you know no inheres.
Now I have to boolean you know.
Well here I'm using the donder let me actually change that list be consistent.
That's all equals is boolean.
OK so now I've got that I don't need to call these with an underscore.
So we'll do it that way.
But inside here so I have to keep this donder or if I add a method here that I want to be exported I
have to remember that added to the Donder all but now I also have to remember added to this Donder all
the Nagata two places I have to go and grab this.
So instead a much simpler way is to basically make the done Dural hear everything that is done Dural
in each of these individually.
Right because those already maintaining what we want exported and so we want that export to trickle
back up to the top.
In this case.
So here what I'm actually going to do is I'm going to take Boullion done the dict.
So I'm going to take this and I'm going to add on to it.
I'm not done the.
Sorry put under all.
OK.
I'm going to grab these properties and I'm just going to string them together.
I'm going to basically concatenate those lists into a single list and do that.
Now if you've got many of those you're going to start getting a lot you know a long line so we can break
it up by essentially making an expression out of this.
And by doing it this way.
OK.
So we're just going to do that so this just allows us to break it over multiple lines.
So now let's go ahead and run main and let's see what happens.
So everything again ran just fine.
Nothing changed.
We only change what we exported and if we now look at our self which is our global namespace for Main
then you can see that we have is Boolean is data is Jaison is integer is numeric directly in our namespace.
So we did that by basically specifying the donder all for the validators package but typically that
is not what I would use.
I would never say from come validators import stuff.
I would just do it this way.
I would import commande validators as validators maybe and then leave it at that.
So we run this.
Everything runs just fine again.
So this is a good place to break.
And the next video will take a look now at packages and some packages and a slightly different approach
and how we can you know start rolling things up.
Now just now if these modules but when we have sub packages underneath the packages Well the best thing
that you need to do with this.
The best approach for you is to just play with this just write packages and molecules and test them
and try different inputs try to see how it works and what happens then you'll get a good feel for what
you can and can't do.
The import system in Python I think is one of the most complex parts of Python.
So the only way to really learn it and to know it well is through practice and just trying stuff out
and see what works.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.